README.md, before:

# Markup Plugin for CakePHP
[![Build Status](https://api.travis-ci.org/dereuromark/cakephp-markup.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/dereuromark/cakephp-markup)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/dereuromark/cakephp-markup/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/dereuromark/cakephp-markup)
[![Minimum PHP Version](http://img.shields.io/badge/php-%3E%3D%205.4-8892BF.svg)](https://php.net/)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/dereuromark/cakephp-markup/license)](https://packagist.org/packages/dereuromark/cakephp-markup)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/dereuromark/cakephp-markup/d/total.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/dereuromark/cakephp-markup)
[![Coding Standards](https://img.shields.io/badge/cs-PSR--2--R-yellow.svg)](https://github.com/php-fig-rectified/fig-rectified-standards)

A CakePHP 3.x plugin to
- easily use code syntax highlighters.

## Setup
```
composer require dereuromark/cakephp-markup
```
and
```
bin/cake plugin load Markup
```

## Usage

## Helper Usage

```php
// You must load the helper before
$this->loadHelper('Markup.Highlighter', $optionalConfigArray);

// In our ctp file we can now link to the hashed version
echo $this->Markup->highlight($text);
```

## License
MIT

Commit message:

Add Js and PHP highlighter.

README.md, after:

# Markup Plugin for CakePHP
[![Build Status](https://api.travis-ci.org/dereuromark/cakephp-markup.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/dereuromark/cakephp-markup)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/dereuromark/cakephp-markup/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/dereuromark/cakephp-markup)
[![Minimum PHP Version](http://img.shields.io/badge/php-%3E%3D%205.4-8892BF.svg)](https://php.net/)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/dereuromark/cakephp-markup/license)](https://packagist.org/packages/dereuromark/cakephp-markup)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/dereuromark/cakephp-markup/d/total.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/dereuromark/cakephp-markup)
[![Coding Standards](https://img.shields.io/badge/cs-PSR--2--R-yellow.svg)](https://github.com/php-fig-rectified/fig-rectified-standards)

A CakePHP 3.x plugin to
- easily use code syntax highlighters.

## Setup
```
composer require dereuromark/cakephp-markup
```
and
```
bin/cake plugin load Markup
```

## Usage

## Helper Usage

```php
// You must load the helper before
$this->loadHelper('Markup.Highlighter', $optionalConfigArray);

// In our ctp file we can now highlight some code snippet
$string = <<<'TEXT'
$result = 'string' . $this->request->query('key'); // Dangerous without checking if set and a string
TEXT;

echo $this->Highlighter->highlight($string, ['lang' => 'php']);
```

### Supported Highlighters

#### PhpHighlighter
Using native PHP syntax highlighting this default highlighter does not need any dependencies.
Just add some basic CSS styling for all `<pre>` tags.

#### JsHighlighter
Using only JS via highlightjs.org this parser is lightweight on the server side.
It requires a CSS and JS file on top to do client-side highlighting "just in time".
```php
// Helper option
'highlighter' => 'Markup\Highlighter\JsHighlighter'
```

### Write your own highlighter
You just have to implement the `HighlighterInterface` and ideally extend the abstract `Highlighter` class.
Then you can simply switch your code highlighting on demand or globally with Configure:
```php
	// Configure
	'Highlighter' => [
		'highlighter' => 'VendorName\PluginName\CustomHighlighter'
	]
```

## License
MIT
